[DOC-7183] Document CC on Azure Limited Access cluster creation (#16893)
cockroachdb/docs: cockroachcloud/cockroachdb-dedicated-on-azure.md

---
title: CockroachDB Dedicated on Azure
summary: Learn about limitations and FAQs about CockroachDB Dedicated on Microsoft Azure.
toc: true
docs_area: deploy
---

This page provides information about {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters on Microsoft Azure, including frequently asked questions and limitations during [limited access](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}/cockroachdb-feature-availability.html). To create a {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster, refer to [Create Your Cluster](create-your-cluster.html).

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
{% include feature-phases/azure-limited-access.md %}
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Limitations

> During [limited access](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}/cockroachdb-feature-availability.html), {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters on Azure have the following limitations. For more details, refer to the [FAQs](#faq).

Author: I don't think this would be as useful from a maintenance perspective as you might think. I'll leave this alone for now.

### Regions

- Multi-region clusters are not supported.
- Single-region clusters can be created in the following regions: `eastus2` (US East Coast - Virginia) and `westeurope` (Netherlands)

### Editing and scaling

- A cluster must have at minimum three nodes. Single-node clusters are not supported.
- After it is created, a cluster cannot currently be scaled horizontally or vertically.
- After it is created, a cluster cannot be modified.

### Disaster recovery

- [Managed Service Backups](use-managed-service-backups.html) are not available during the limited access period. Customers can take and restore from their own backups on Azure storage (Blob Storage or ADLS Gen 2).

### Networking

> - Azure Private Link is not available during the limited access period.

Reviewer: Should we add that "IP Allowlisting is supported though for network security"?

### Observability

> During [limited access](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}/cockroachdb-feature-availability.html):

Reviewer: Isn't this statement redundant as it's indicated at the top too?

- [Log Export](export-logs.html) is not available.

> - Exporting metrics to Azure Monitor or to any third-party observability service is not available, with the exception of [Datadog](tools-page.html) is not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Exporting metrics to Azure Monitor is not available, though [Datadog](tools-page.html) is supported.
```

Author: Updated this a bit.

> - Exporting metrics to Azure Monitor or to any third-party observability service is not available, with the exception of [Datadog](tools-page.html) is not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Exporting metrics to Azure Monitor is not available, though [Datadog](tools-page.html) is supported.
```

### Other features

> The following features are not available during [limited access](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}/cockroachdb-feature-availability.html) for {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters on Azure:

Reviewer: Same here, isn't it redundant?

- [Private Clusters](private-clusters.html)
- [Customer Managed Encryption Keys (CMEK)](cmek.html)
- [Egress Perimeter Controls](egress-perimeter-controls.html)
- [PCI DSS Compliance](pci-dss.html)

> <a id="faq"></a>

Author: Nope, I added it since I had given you the #faq anchor before deciding to go with FAQs here.

## FAQs

> ### What does limited access refer to regarding the availability of {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} on Azure?

Author: I don't really have access to control the CSS at this level. cc/ @nickvigilante

If you don't want the individual FAQs to show up in the right-hand TOC I can make them H4 headings. Let me try that and see what you think.

> ### What does limited access refer to regarding the availability of {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} on Azure?

Reviewer 2: You can control the display TOC by adding one of the following snippets to the YAML front matter.

This disables the TOC entirely:
```
toc: false
```

This enables the TOC but prevents `h3`s from displaying:

```
toc: true
toc_not_nested: true
```

{{ site.data.products.dedicated }} on Azure is fully managed, just like {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} on GCP or AWS. During limited access, your {{ site.data.products.db }} organization must be enrolled before you can start using {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} on Azure.

> The clusters created during this period are recommended for proof-of-concept and testing, and are not suitable for production. The [{{ site.data.products.db }} Service Level Agreement (SLA)](https://cockroachlabs.com/cloud-terms-and-conditions/cockroachcloud-technical-service-level-agreement/) is not applicable to Azure clusters during limited access. Azure clusters are excluded from premium support agreements during limited access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The clusters created during this period are recommended for proof-of-concept and testing, and are not suitable for production. The [{{ site.data.products.db }} Service Level Agreement (SLA)](https://cockroachlabs.com/cloud-terms-and-conditions/cockroachcloud-technical-service-level-agreement/) is not applicable to Azure clusters during limited access. Azure clusters are excluded from premium support agreements during limited access, and technical support is only available during business hours.
```

[Managed service backups](use-managed-service-backups.html?filters=dedicated) are not available during the limited access period.

### Is it possible to take encrypted backups for dedicated clusters in Azure?

Yes, customers can [take and restore from their own encrypted backups](take-and-restore-customer-owned-backups.html) on Azure storage by using an RSA key stored in [Azure Key Vault](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/key-vault/keys/about-keys).

### Are changefeeds available for dedicated clusters in Azure?

Yes, customers can create and configure [changefeeds](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}/changefeed-messages.html) to send data events in real-time from a {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster to a [downstream sink](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/stable/changefeed-sinks.html) such as Kafka, Azure storage, or Webhook. [Azure Event Hubs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/event-hubs/azure-event-hubs-kafka-overview) provides an Azure-native service that can be used with a Kafka endpoint as a sink.

### Can we export logs and metrics from a dedicated cluster on Azure to Azure Monitor or a third-party observability service?

> During limited access, exporting metrics to Datadog is supported. Refer to [Export Metrics From a {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} Cluster](export-metrics.html). It’s not possible to export cluster logs or metrics to Azure Monitor or to another third-party observability service during the limited access period.To express interest in this feature, contact your Cockroach Labs account team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During limited access, exporting metrics to Datadog is supported. Refer to [Export Metrics From a {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} Cluster](export-metrics.html). It’s not possible to export cluster logs or metrics to Azure Monitor or to another third-party observability service during the limited access period. To express interest in this feature, contact your Cockroach Labs account team.
```

### Are CockroachDB user-defined functions available for dedicated clusters in Azure?

> Yes, [user-defined functions](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}/user-defined-functions.html) are supported for {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters on Azure. The same CockroachDB binaries is used across {{ site.data.products.db }} deployment environments, and all SQL features behave the same on Azure as on GCP or AWS, with the exception of multi-region capabilities during the limited access period.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes, [user-defined functions](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}/user-defined-functions.html) are supported for {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters on Azure. The same CockroachDB binaries are used across {{ site.data.products.db }} deployment environments, and all SQL features behave the same on Azure as on GCP or AWS, with the exception of multi-region capabilities during the limited access period.
```

### Can we use {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} on Azure if we are coming from PostgreSQL?

> CockroachDB supports the [PostgreSQL wire protocol](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/protocol.html) and the majority of PostgreSQL syntax. Refer to [Supported SQL Feature Support](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}//sql-feature-support.html). The same CockroachDB binaries is used across {{ site.data.products.db }} deployment environments, and all SQL features behave the same on Azure as on GCP or AWS, with the exception of multi-region capabilities during the limited access period.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CockroachDB supports the [PostgreSQL wire protocol](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/protocol.html) and the majority of PostgreSQL syntax. Refer to [Supported SQL Feature Support](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}//sql-feature-support.html). The same CockroachDB binaries are used across {{ site.data.products.db }} deployment environments, and all SQL features behave the same on Azure as on GCP or AWS, with the exception of multi-region capabilities during the limited access period.
```

> CockroachDB supports the [PostgreSQL wire protocol](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/protocol.html) and the majority of PostgreSQL syntax. Refer to [Supported SQL Feature Support](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}//sql-feature-support.html). The same CockroachDB binaries is used across {{ site.data.products.db }} deployment environments, and all SQL features behave the same on Azure as on GCP or AWS, with the exception of multi-region capabilities during the limited access period.

Author: Specifically not.

### How are {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters on Azure isolated from each other? Do they follow a similar approach like on AWS and GCP?

We follow a similar tenant isolation approach on Azure as on GCP and AWS. During the limited access period, each {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster is created its own unique Azure subscription on a [AKS cluster](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/kubernetes-service) in a unique [VNet](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/virtual-networks-overview). Implementation details are subject to change.

### Can we use Single-Sign On to sign-in to {{ site.data.products.db }} to manage {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters on Azure?

Yes, [Cloud Organization SSO](cloud-org-sso.html) is supported. This feature is unrelated to the cluster's deployment environment.

> ### Is it possible to use a secure and centralized authentication method for {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters on Azure?

Reviewer: Client certs is supported for both human and app users - https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/cockroachcloud/client-certs-dedicated.html
